Lab 1.1
This quite visual graphic of data breaches tells a very compelling story of how poor security on behalf of mismanagement of information (think integrity in terms of CIA triad) has led to large sums of personal information were lost from 2015 to 2022. Many hundreds of millions of customers’ personal information were lost at that time due to poor handling by IT departments of companies allowing such poor management of data break down integrity of their company. For example, in 2018, Twitter found an internal glitch that allowed all estimated 330 million users passwords were exposed. This created a very large shift into the integrity of which companies now store customers’ data to which we now see only a handful of companies in 2025 have had significant data breaches due to poor security, the largest of which is Coinbase that allowed 69,461 customers’ data to be stolen by cybercriminals (Gatlan, 2025).  
	While mismanagement can lead to significant losses of sensitive data, the larger threat by far and away is hackers actively working to breach systems to steal data. For example, in 2024, the National Public Data Records were hacked at which time over 2.7 Billion personal records with Social Security numbers were leaked (Abrams, 2024). So, be sure to go check your Transunion, Experian, and Equifax reports for any anomalies! 

Lab 1.2
	After setting up the Windows sandbox on my laptop, I opened Microsoft Edge to download Mozilla Firefox. After opening and installing on the “virtual machine”, I ran Firefox in a typical fashion, playing Retrogames.cc where I enjoyed a rousing game of Contra for NES. From there, I shut down the virtual machine only to reboot it and see Firefox was gone. 
	This was due to the virtual machine defaulting back to factory settings on that virtual partition and then being scrubbed each time it was shut down, not unlike the sand in a zen garden or sandbox. This is one of the most useful tools when checking software from less than reputable sources to ensure your PC or laptop is not completely corrupted by malware and will only destroy the virtual machine, which is cleaned after reboot. 


