CYBR-1100 • Week 01 • Intro to Cybersecurity
Student: James Jordon
Date: 2025-08-20

Summary 
This artifact demonstrates the introductory lessons I have learned from CYBR 1100 to include the extreme importance of cybersecurity, not just for your personal information, but for society as a whole. Week 1, our class covered what is cybersecurity, the difficulties in maintaining cybersecurity due to the vast amounts of devices, operating systems, and various types of malware. We also learned the McCumber Cube and CIA Triad of cybersecurity: Confidentiality (a set of rules and protocols used to prevent sensitive information from falling into the wrong hands), Integrity (this ensures said protocols or information from the system cannot be modified either intentionally or accidentally), and Availability (the ability for only authorized users to be able to access the information stored in the system and maintaining unauthorized users from gaining access). We also learned the different types of hackers such as black hat, grey hat, and white hat hackers and their respective positions.

Artifact 
Lab 1.1 This quite visual graphic of data breaches tells a very compelling story of how poor security on behalf of mismanagement of information (think integrity in terms of CIA triad) has led to large sums of personal information were lost from 2015 to 2022. Many hundreds of millions of customers’ personal information were lost at that time due to poor handling by IT departments of companies allowing such poor management of data break down integrity of their company. For example, in 2018, Twitter found an internal glitch that allowed all estimated 330 million users passwords were exposed. This created a very large shift into the integrity of which companies now store customers’ data to which we now see only a handful of companies in 2025 have had significant data breaches due to poor security, the largest of which is Coinbase that allowed 69,461 customers’ data to be stolen by cybercriminals (Gatlan, 2025).
While mismanagement can lead to significant losses of sensitive data, the larger threat by far and away is hackers actively working to breach systems to steal data. For example, in 2024, the National Public Data Records were hacked at which time over 2.7 Billion personal records with Social Security numbers were leaked (Abrams, 2024). So, be sure to go check your Transunion, Experian, and Equifax reports for any anomalies!

Reflection
Throughout the last five decades, an explosion in the amount of new Smart devices have hit store shelves to include cell phones and smart TVs to smart appliances, and each and every one are susceptible to cybersecurity threats. In fact, there are over 1.39 billion pieces of malware aching to get into your system. Cybersecurity, through the use of the CIA Triad (Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability) can protect many of those devices from harm. Confidentiality, referring to the set of protocols that prevent sensitive data from being leaked to the wrong individuals, can prevent hackers from gaining your personal information. Integrity, referring to the assurance that the system information or its protocols cannot be intentionally or accidentally modified allows customers the knowledge their products will not be tampered with internally, and availability, referring to the ease of access of information for only authorized users, for example using two-step verification, ensures that only the authorized users of those devices are allowed access to that information. This information and knowledge of the CIA Triad and how cybersecurity was built has given me a good framework that I have begun building my cybersecurity career, keeping in mind each of the tenants of the CIA triad and how to keep the information in my personal, student, and business accounts more secure. The most interesting point I learned is how often an attempted hack occurs, once every 39 seconds, an absolute staggering number.

References
Ciampa, M. (2022). Security awareness (6e). Cengage. (Ch. X)
OER: Phishing Red Flags (Course Resources)
*AI Use Note (if used): I used SAGE ChatGPT as a way to brainstorm the ways of writing the opening statements and of the Week 1 topics and to help give me a better understanding of the CIA Triad and its history.
